#	$Id: TODO,v 1.4 1993/09/07 15:40:51 ws Exp $

 1) should understand "older", original High Sierra ("CDROM001") type

   Not yet. ( I don't have this technical information, yet. )

 2) should understand Rock Ridge

   Yes, we have follows function.

       o Symbolic Link
       o Real Name(long name)
       o File Attribute 
       o Time stamp
       o uid, gid
       o Devices
       o Relocated directories

   Except follows:

       o POSIX device number mapping

         There is some preliminary stuff in there that (ab-)uses the mknod
         system call, but this needs a writable filesystem
         
 3) should be called cdfs, as there are other ISO file system soon possible

   Not yet. Probably we should make another file system when the ECMA draft 
   is valid and do it. For doing Rock Ridge Support, I can use almost same
   code. So I just use the same file system interface...

 4) should have file handles implemented for use with NFS, etc

   Yes. we have already this one, and I based it for this release. 

 5) should have name translation enabled by mount flag

   Yes. we can disable the Rock Ridge Extension by follows option;

      "mount -t isofs -o -norrip /dev/cd0d /cdrom"

 6) should run as a user process, and not take up kernel space (cdroms
    are slow)

   Not yet.

 7) ECMA support.

   Not yet. we need not only a technical spec but also ECMA format
   cd-rom itself!

 8) Character set change by SVD ( multi SVD support )

   Not yet. We should also hack the other part of system as 8 bit
   clean. As far as I know, if you export the cdrom by NFS, the client
   can access the 8 bit clean (ie. Solaris Japanese with EUC code )

 9) Access checks in isofs_access

   Not yet.

 10) Support for generation numbers

   Yes. Default is to list only the last file (the one with the highest
   generation number). If you mount with -gen, all files are shown with
   their generation numbers. In both cases you can specify the generation
   number on opening files (if you happen to know it) or leave it off,
   when it will again find the last file.

 11) Support for extended attributes

   Yes. Since this requires an extra block buffer for the attributes
   this must be enabled on mounting with the option -extattr.

----------
Last update July 19, '93 by Atsushi Murai. (amurai@spec.co.jp)
Last update August 19, '93 by Wolfgang Solfrank. (ws@tools.de)
