$FreeBSD$

Thanks a lot for postcards from:
--------------------------------

	Aachen
	Arnhem
	Arolsen
	Bad Rothenfelde
	Berlin
	Birenbach
	Bochum
	Bohnsdorf
	Bonn
	Bornheim
	Braunschweig
	Darmstadt
	Delft
	Dresden
	Flekkefjord
	Habichtswald
	Hamburg (2)
	Ihlow
	Jena
	Kassel
	Koengen
	Kymgbuk, Korea
	Landsberg
	Leiden
	Magdeburg
	Mauerbach
	Mersch
	Middelburg
	Mosi-Oa-Tunya
	Muenchen (4)
	Netherlands (Leo)
	Netherlands (Peter)
	Rio de Janeiro
	Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie
	Scheessel
	Siena, Italy
	St. Jacob
	Travemuende
	Vedskoelle, Danmark
	Windach
	Wuerzburg


I would like to thank the following people and organisations:
-------------------------------------------------------------

Gary Jennejohn		for his constant kind support while writing isdn4bsd 
			during that year. Gary always runs the latest and 
			greatest FreeBSD-current and makes isdn4bsd run 
			there, if his root fs is intact, of course! :-).
			In February 1999, Gary contributed the AVM Fritz!
			Card PCI driver to isdn4bsd.

Martin Husemann		is a major contributor to isdn4bsd. He wrote almost
			all of the NetBSD support for isdn4bsd, the monitor
			network code and the Diehl driver. He constantly 
			tries put strange macros into i4b ... ;-)

Serge Vakulenko		for writing the sppp driver and making it freely 
			available.

Joerg Wunsch		for adapting the synchronous PPP stuff to i4b.
			Gary finished this and integrated the PPP stuff into 
			current isdn4bsd.

Wolfgang Helbig		for many patches, polishing isdn4bsd and layer 1 
			debugging.

Thomas Halenbeck and
Stephan Forth		of FORTH EDV in Mainz donated two AVM A1 card and 
			one AVM B1 card to support the development and 
			maintenance of drivers for this cards. Thomas donated
			three more AVM A1 cards in the meantime - Thank you!

Arne Helme 		for the initial work on how to support IOM-2 based 
			boards.

Andrew Gordon 		for disassembling an old AVM A1 and documenting it. 
			Andrew added VJ header compression to the ipr interface 
			and is a constant source of various hints and 
			suggestions :-)
			Andrew sent in a Teles S0/16 PnP for FreeBSD newbus
			conversion, thanks a lot!

Juergen Krause		and someone who does not want to be mentioned anymore 
			for the work on the first ISDN package for FreeBSD.

Michael Elbel		for supporting the development with ftp/www/mail 
			resources.

Leo Weppelman		for the port to the NetBSD/Atari platform.

Bas Oude Nijeweme 	for the port to OpenBSD/i386 2.2.

German Tischler		for the driver for the Sedlbauer WinSpeed card,
			for the PnP support for FreeBSD and for constant
			testing and contributions. German did the initial
			mostly complete conversion of the layer1 code
			to the FreeBSD 4.0 new-bus driver architecture!

Matthias Apitz		for the driver for the AVM PCMCIA Fritz!Card.

Martijn Plak		for the Dynalink driver.

Ignatios Souvatzis  	for the NetBSD/Amiga port and associated driver(s).

Christoph Weber-Fahr	donated an AVM B1 card to support development of a
			driver. Thanks a lot, Christoph!

Eivind Eklund		for the PnP support for FreeBSD, for __FreeBSD_version
			and more.

Karsten Keil		author of the hisax isdn4linux driver for some details
			about the one or the other piece of hardware.

Bert Driehuis		for the support of the BSDI BSD/OS 4.0 operating system

Barry Scott		for fixed charging units shorthold mode support (as
			used in the UK by British Telecom).

Poul-Henning Kamp	for the work on DTMF decoding and many hints, fixes
			and suggestions.

Stefan Bethke		for the work on the audio format conversion stuff in
			the telephony paths.

Udo Schweigert		for PCMCIA support and work on FreeBSD 2.2x 
			compatibility. Udo contributed the AVM Fritz PnP
			and the Siemens I-Surf V2.0 driver.

Ernst Winter		donated a Fritz!Card PCI which was used to develop
			and test the driver.

Harald Frank            long-term loan of an ISDN Blaster board.

Klaus Burkert           for a loan of an ISDN Master II.

Ari Suutari		for a driver for the Asuscom ISDNlink ISA PnP card

Brian Somers		for working on making userland ppp work with i4b

Rune Knapstad		for good help with the port to OpenBSD/i386 2.5

Uwe Laverenz		for the donation of an ELSA PCC-16 card

Luke Roberts		for the long time loan a Dynalink ISDN intern PCI card

Marc van Kempen		for the donation of a Dynalink ISDN intern PCI card

Christoph Kukulies	for the donation of an ITK ix1 card

Nikolay Sturm 		sent in patches to get OpenBSD 2.6 supported.

Dave Boyce		wrote a driver for the Winbond W6692 PCI ISDN
			chip which eventually lead to a layer 1 reorg.

Hans Petter Selasky	for his contribution of a driver for the
			Teles 16.3c card (and the complete ihfc driver).

Sergio de Souza Prallon	for the contribution of the itjc driver which
			supports the NETJet-S and the Teles PCI-TJ cards


               ------------------------------------------


Liebscher & Partner	Martin Welk and Holm Tiffe sent in a motivating 
			BSD daemon plushie :-)

Abaid			Andreas Mutschlechner of Abaid, Alte Strasse 2, in
			I-39017 Schenna (BZ) donated money to support i4b
			development, which was used to upgrade my main test
			machine for isdn4bsd from an 486 to a Pentium II.
			Thank you very, very much, Andreas !

3Com USRobotics		Christian Weissgerber of 3Com USRobotics in Munich 
			donated a passive "Sportster ISDN TA intern" ISDN 
			card and complete hardware documentation for the card.

			Florian Uhl of 3Com in Munich donated two MC68SC302
			"3Com U.S.Robotics ISDN Card PnP internal" cards and 
			documentation to support writing a driver for this 
			card.

Dr. Neuhaus		Klaus Muehle of Dr. Neuhaus Telekommunikation in
			Hamburg sent documentation for the NICCY GO@ and 
			NICCY EASY@ ISDN cards to support development of
			a driver for this cards.

Stollmann		Many thanks to Christian Luehrs and Manfred Jung 
			for giving out docs and sources to support the 
			driver development for the tina-dd active card.

ELSA			Axel Riemer of ELSA AG in Aachen donated several
			ISA, PCI and PC-Card ISDN boards to three developers
			and provided support and documentation to help with
			adding support to i4b for this hardware. Werner Fehr
			of ELSA answered our technical questions and gave
			valuable hints. Thanks also to Andreas Klemm for
			making the contact ;-)

Cologne Chip Design	Harald Schaefer of Cologne Chip Design send in a
			HFC-S-PCI developer card, complete docs and
			layer 1 example code to support the development
			of a driver for that chipset! Thanks a lot!

ASUSCOM Network Inc.	Mr. Ben Chen of Asuscom sent a Winbond based PCI
			card and a Cologne Chip Design based PCI card to
			support the development of device drivers.

Cubical Solutions Ltd.	Juha-Matti Liukkonen <jml@cubical.fi> of Cubical
			contributed the CAPI layer and the AVM B1/T1 device
			driver to isdn4bsd.

AVM GmbH		Mr. A. Ziessnitz of AVM donated an AVM B1 PCI cards
			to support development and maintenance of a driver
			for this card.



The following people contributed in one or the other way to isdn4bsd:
---------------------------------------------------------------------

	Alexander Langer
	Andreas Haakh
	Andreas Lohrum 
	Arve Ronning 
	Aurelien Bargy
	Bart van Leeuwen
	Caspar Schlegel
	Christian Wolf 
	Christoph Kukulies 
	Daniel Rock 
	David Wetzel 
	Dirk Meyer
	Doobee R. Tzeck
	Dominik Brettnacher
	Gabor Dolla 
	H. Eckert
	Hans Huebner 
	Harald Hanche-Olsen 
	Harold Gutch 
	Heiko Schaefer 
	Jan Sparud
	Joachim Kuebart 
	Joakim Hernberg
	Juha-Matti Liukkonen
	Julian H. Stacey 
	Kazunori Fujiwara
	Lars Koeller 
	Malte Lance 
	Marcel Moolenaar
	Martin Recktenwald 
	Meike Aulbach 
	Michael Hohmuth 
	Michael Ranner
	Michael Reifenberg
	Nils Ulltveit-Moe
	Paul Herman
	Paul Sijben 
	Philippe Guezou
	Rob Pickering 
	Stefan Esser 
	Stefan Herrmann
	Steven Looman
	Wolfgang Solfrank

(In case i forgot someone, please tell me!)
