The xntp3 Distribution

This directory and its subdirectories contain the Network Time Protocol
Version 3 (NTP) distribution for Unix systems. It contains source code
for the daemon, together with related auxiliary programs, documentation
and strange stuff. You are welcome to the lot, with due consideration of
the COPYRIGHT files stashed in the distributions. You are also invited
to contribute bugfixes and drivers for new and exotic radios, telephones
and sundials. This distribution is normally available by anonymous ftp
as the compressed tar archive xntp-<version>.tar.Z in the pub/ntp directory
on louie.udel.edu.

The base directory contains the distributions and related stuff. The files
marked with a "*" are not distributed, but generated. Most of
the subdirectories contain README files describing their contents. The
base directory ./ includes:

COPYRIGHT       file specifying copyright conditions, together with a
                list of major authors and electric addresses.

Config          * configuration file built by the configuration script
                "make makeconfig" and used to build the makefiles in the
                various subdirectories. Do not edit.

Config.local    * Unless you have a reference clock (besides the local
		computer clock) or want to change the default installation
		directory (/usr/local/bin) not action is needed. For
		configuring a reference clock a "make refconf" should
		suffice. Diehards can still use an editor on this file.

Config.local.dist file used to generate a plausible Config.local by commands
		such as "make Config.local.green".

Config.sed      * sed script used to build makefiles from the
                configuration file. Do not edit.

Makefile        this is the root of the makefile tree. Do not edit.
		(Contents under pressure - qualified personel only 8-)

PORTING         contains useful information for porting to unexplored
                new systems.

RELNOTES        instructions for compiling and installing the daemon and
                supporting programs.

README          this file.

TODO		our current problems where we could need help.

adjtime         directory containing the sources for the adjtime daemon
                for HP/UX systems.

authstuff       directory containing sources for miscellaneous programs
                to test, calibrate and certify the cryptographic
                mechanisms for DES and MD5 based authentication. These
                programs do not include the cryptographic routines
                themselves, so are free of U.S. export restrictions.

clockstuff      directory containing sources for miscellaneous programs
                to test certain auxilliary programs used with some
                kernel configurations, together with a program to
                calculate propagation delays for use with radio clocks
                and national time dissemination services such as
                WWV/WWVH, WWVB and CHU.

compilers       directory containing configuration scripts for various
                compilers and operating systems.

conf            directory containing a motley collection of
                configuration files for various systems. For example
                only.

doc             directory containing miscellaneous man pages and memos
                useful for installation and subnet management.

gadget          directory containing instructions and construction data
                for a mysterious little box used as a CHU radio
                demodulator and/or a level converter-pulse generator for
                a precision 1-pps signal.

include         directory containing include header files used by most
                programs in the distribution.

hints		directory containing files with hints on particular
		topics like installation on specific OS variants or
		general information.

kernel          directory containing sources for kernel programs such as
                line disciplines and STREAMS modules used with the CHU
                decoder and precision 1-pps signals.

lib             directory containing sources for the library programs
                used by most programs in the distribution.

machines        directory containing configuration scripts for various
                operating systems.

ntpdate         directory containing sources for a program to set the
                local machine time from one or more remote machines
                running NTP. Operates like rdate, but much more
                accurate.

ntpq            directory containing sources for a utility program to
                query local and remote NTP peers for state variables and
                related timekeeping information. This program conforms
                to Appendix A of the NTP Version 3 Specification RFC
                1305.

ntptrace        directory containing sources for a utility program that
                can be used to reveal the chain of NTP peers from a
                designated peer to the primary server at the root of the
                timekeeping subnet.

parse		directory containing file belonging to the generic parse
		reference clock driver. For reasonably simple clocks it
		is possible to get away with about 3-4Kb of code.
		additionally the SunOS 4.x streams module for parse is
		residing here.

parse/util	some goodies for testing parse processing of DCF77 information.
		(primarily for use on Suns, although others may work
		also - possibly with a little porting.)
		one little gem is dcfd.c - DCF77 decoder with ntp loopfilter
		code for standalone DCF77 synchronisation without the full
		works of NTP.
		Dcfd.c has been ported to FreeBSD for the Boeder DCF77 receiver
		by Vincenzo Capuano.

ppsclock        directory containing sources for modifications to the
                kernel asynchronous serial driver plus a STREAMS module
                to capture a precision 1-pps signal. Useful on SunOS
                4.1.X systems only.

refclocks	directory containing reference clock configuration support

scripts         directory containing scripts to build the configuration
                file "config" in this directory and then the makefiles
                used in various dependent directories.
		the subdirectories monitoring and support hold various
		perl and shell scripts for visualising synchronisation
		and daemon startup.

util            directory containing sources for various utility and
                testing programs.

xntpd           directory containing sources for the NTP Version 3 daemon.

xntpdc          directory containing sources for a utility program to
                query local and remote NTP peers for state variables and
                related timekeeping information. This program is
                specific to this implmentation of NTP Version 3 and does
                not conform to Appendix A of the NTP Version 3
                Specification RFC 1305.

xntpres         directory containing sources for a name-resolution
                program used in some configurations of NTP Version 3.
