$FreeBSD$

This file really doesn't belong here, but I wanted to elicit comment
without starting a discussion as to where it really does belong.
Anyway, here goes...

When the new CVS tree was set up back in May, I wanted to ensure that
everybody at least gave some thought to asking other people to look at
code before it is committed.  Since we have had a number of rancorous
discussions in the past about both committing code prematurely, and
committing code that was written by someone else, I decided to use the
`template' function of CVS to give people a chance to think about it.

The template looks like this:

Reviewed by:    
Submitted by:   
Obtained from:
CVS: ----------------------------------------------------------------------
CVS: Obtained from:
CVS:   If this change has been taken from another system, such as NetBSD,
CVS:   then name the system in this line, otherwise delete it.
CVS: Reviewed by:
CVS:   Before committing changes please have someone check your work and
CVS:   include their name here. If the change is trivial and you have not
CVS:   had it reviewed then delete this line.
CVS: Submitted by:
CVS:   If this code has been contributed to FreeBSD by someone else; i.e.,
CVS:   they sent us a patch or a new module, then include their name/email
CVS:   address here. If this is your work then delete this line.

(Note that these lines will also automatically removed now if the tags
are empty.)

If you are making substantial or possibly controversial changes to the
code, please talk to someone else who either has commit authority, or
who is recognized as an expert in the BSD community.  This latter
category includes the author of the program or subsystem you're
modifying, like Rick Macklem for the NFS code, or Keith Bostic for
`vi'.

If the changes are insubstantial and noncontroversial (e.g., fixing
spelling errors, or most Makefile changes) there is no need for
review.  Please delete the ``Reviewed by:'' line, though, so that the
logs look cleaner.

If you are committing code or modifications which were originally done
by some other person or group, them please please please make sure to
credit them in the ``Submitted by'' line.  In this case, you are
considered to be the reviewer.  If it is your own code, or that of
another team member, then you should delete the ``Submitted by'' line,
so that the logs look cleaner.

-GAWollman


Importing new stuff is somewhat error-prone since it's easy to create
unwanted directories or even whole subtrees without noticing it.  The
script ``easy-import'' has been created to make first-time imports
easier to handle (vendor-branch imports are not yet supported), and to
help people avoiding the most common errors.  It is available as
/usr/local/bin/easy-import on freefall, or in the source tree as
src/gnu/usr.bin/cvs/contrib/easy-import.pl.

Jörg Wunsch
