$FreeBSD$

Please note that the content of this file is strictly advisory.
No locks listed here are valid.  The only strict review requirements
are granted by core.  These are documented in head/LOCKS and enforced
by svnadmin/conf/approvers.

The source tree is a community effort.  However, some folks go to the
trouble of looking after particular areas of the tree.  In return for
their active caretaking of the code it is polite to coordinate changes
with them.  This is a list of people who have expressed an interest in
part of the code or listed their active caretaking role so that other
committers can easily find somebody who is familiar with it.  The notes
should specify if there is a 3rd party source tree involved or other
things that should be kept in mind.

However, this is not a 'big stick', it is an offer to help and a source
of guidance.  It does not override the communal nature of the tree.
It is not a registry of 'turf' or private property.

subsystem	login	notes
-----------------------------
kqueue		jmg	Pre-commit review requested.
libc/posix1e	rwatson	Pre-commit review requested.
POSIX.1e ACLs	rwatson	Pre-commit review requested.
UFS EAs		rwatson	Pre-commit review requested.
MAC Framework	rwatson	Pre-commit review requested.
MAC Modules	rwatson	Pre-commit review requested.
contrib/openbsm	rwatson	Pre-commit review requested.
sys/security/audit	rwatson	Pre-commit review requested.
ahc(4)		gibbs	Pre-commit review requested.
ahd(4)		gibbs	Pre-commit review requested.
PC Card		imp	Pre-commit review requested.
CardBus		imp	Pre-commit review requested.
pci bus		imp,jhb	Pre-commit review requested.
cdboot		jhb	Pre-commit review requested.
pxeboot		jhb	Pre-commit review requested.
witness		jhb	Pre-commit review requested.
CAM		gibbs,
		ken	Pre-commit review requested. send to scsi@freebsd.org
devstat(9)	ken	Pre-commit review requested.
camcontrol(8)	ken	Pre-commit review requested.
libcam		ken	Pre-commit review requested.
libdevstat	ken	Pre-commit review requested.
iostat(8)	ken	Pre-commit review requested.
cd(4)		ken	Pre-commit review requested.
pass(4)		ken	Pre-commit review requested.
ch(4)		ken	Pre-commit review requested.
em(4)		jfv	Pre-commit review requested.
bxe(4)		davidch	Pre-commit review requested.
tdfx(4)		cokane  Just keep me informed of changes, try not to break it.
sendmail	gshapiro	Pre-commit review requested.
etc/mail	gshapiro	Pre-commit review requested.
				Keep in sync with -STABLE.
etc/sendmail	gshapiro	Pre-commit review requested.
				Keep in sync with -STABLE.
libfetch	des	Advance notification requested.
fetch		des	Advance notification requested.
libpam		des	Pre-commit review requested.
openssh		des	Pre-commit review requested.
pseudofs	des	Pre-commit review requested.
procfs		des	Pre-commit review requested.
linprocfs	des	Pre-commit review requested.
lpr		gad	Pre-commit review requested, particularly for
			lpd/recvjob.c and lpd/printjob.c.
newsyslog(8)	gad	Heads-up appreciated.  I'm going thru the PR's for it.
nvi		peter	Try not to break it.
libz		peter	Try not to break it.
groff		ru	Recommends pre-commit review.
share/mk	ru	This is a vital component of the build system, so I
			offer a pre-commit review for anything non-trivial.
ipfw		ipfw	Pre-commit review preferred. send to ipfw@freebsd.org
drm		rnoland	Just keep me informed of changes, try not to break it.
unifdef(1)	fanf	Pre-commit review requested.
ntp         	roberto	Pre-commit review requested.
inetd		dwmalone	Recommends pre-commit review.
contrib/smbfs	bp	Open for in-tree committs. In case of functional
			changes pre-commit review requested.
contrib/pf	mlaier	Pre-commit review requested.
binutils	obrien	Insists on BU blocked from unapproved commits
file		obrien	Insists to keep file blocked from other's unapproved
			commits
contrib/bzip2	obrien	Pre-commit review required.
lukemftpd	obrien	Pre-commit review required.
geom_concat	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_eli	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_gate	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_label	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_mirror	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_nop	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_raid3	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_shsec	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_stripe	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
geom_zero	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
sbin/geom	pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
zfs		pjd	Pre-commit review preferred.
nfs		alfred	Will be happy to review code, but not mandatory.
rpc.lockd	alfred	Will be happy to review code, but not mandatory.
truss		alfred	Will be happy to review code, but not mandatory.
rpc		alfred	Pre-commit review requested.
pkg_install	portmgr	Pre-commit review or approval from portmgr@ requested.
linux emul	emulation	Please discuss changes here.
bs{diff,patch}	cperciva	Pre-commit review requested.
portsnap	cperciva	Pre-commit review requested.
freebsd-update	cperciva	Pre-commit review requested.
openssl		benl		Pre-commit review requested.
sys/netgraph/bluetooth	emax	Pre-commit review preferred.
lib/libbluetooth	emax	Pre-commit review preferred.
lib/libsdp		emax	Pre-commit review preferred.
usr.bin/bluetooth	emax	Pre-commit review preferred.
usr.sbin/bluetooth	emax	Pre-commit review preferred.
gnu/usr.bin/send-pr	bugmaster	Pre-commit review requested.
*env(3)		secteam	Due to the problematic security history of this
			code, please have patches reviewed by secteam.
share/zoneinfo		edwin	Heads-up appreciated, since our data is coming
				from a third party source.
usr.sbin/zic		edwin   Heads-up appreciated, since this code is
				maintained by a third party source.
lib/libc/stdtime	edwin   Heads-up appreciated, since parts of this code
				is maintained by a third party source.
sbin/routed	bms	Pre-commit review; notify vendor at rhyolite.com
isci(4)		jimharris	Pre-commit review requested.
3dfx		cokane		Pre-commit review preferred.
cmx		daniel@roe.ch	Pre-commit review preferred.
filemon		obrien		Pre-commit review preferred.
sysdoc		trhodes		Pre-commit review preferred.
sh(1)		jilles		Pre-commit review requested. This also applies
				to kill(1), printf(1) and test(1) which are
				compiled in as builtins.
