BIND 9

	BIND version 9 is a major rewrite of nearly all aspects of the
	underlying BIND architecture.  Some of the important features of
	BIND 9 are:

		- DNS Security
			DNSSEC (signed zones)
			TSIG (signed DNS requests)

		- IP version 6
			Answers DNS queries on IPv6 sockets
			IPv6 resource records (AAAA)
			Experimental IPv6 Resolver Library

		- DNS Protocol Enhancements
			IXFR, DDNS, Notify, EDNS0
			Improved standards conformance

		- Views
			One server process can provide multiple "views" of
			the DNS namespace, e.g. an "inside" view to certain
			clients, and an "outside" view to others.

		- Multiprocessor Support

		- Improved Portability Architecture


	BIND version 9 development has been underwritten by the following
	organizations:

		Sun Microsystems, Inc.
		Hewlett Packard
		Compaq Computer Corporation
		IBM
		Process Software Corporation
		Silicon Graphics, Inc.
		Network Associates, Inc.
		U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency
		USENIX Association
		Stichting NLnet - NLnet Foundation
		Nominum, Inc.

	For a summary of functional enhancements in previous
	releases, see the HISTORY file.

	For a detailed list of user-visible changes from
	previous releases, see the CHANGES file.

BIND 9.8.0

        BIND 9.8.0 includes a number of changes from BIND 9.7 and earlier
        releases.  New features include:

        - Built-in trust anchor for the root zone, which can be
          switched on via "dnssec-validation auto;"
        - Support for DNS64.
        - Support for response policy zones (RPZ).
        - Support for writable DLZ zones.
        - Improved ease of configuration of GSS/TSIG for
          interoperability with Active Directory
        - Support for GOST signing algorithm for DNSSEC.
        - Removed RTT Banding from server selection algorithm.
        - New "static-stub" zone type.
        - Allow configuration of resolver timeouts via
          "resolver-query-timeout" option.

BIND 9.7.0

	BIND 9.7.0 includes a number of changes from BIND 9.6 and earlier
	releases.  Most are intended to simplify DNSSEC configuration.

	New features include:

	- Fully automatic signing of zones by "named".
	- Simplified configuration of DNSSEC Lookaside Validation (DLV).
	- Simplified configuration of Dynamic DNS, using the "ddns-confgen"
	  command line tool or the "local" update-policy option.  (As a side
	  effect, this also makes it easier to configure automatic zone
	  re-signing.)
	- New named option "attach-cache" that allows multiple views to
	  share a single cache.
	- DNS rebinding attack prevention.
	- New default values for dnssec-keygen parameters.
	- Support for RFC 5011 automated trust anchor maintenance
	- Smart signing: simplified tools for zone signing and key
	  maintenance.
	- The "statistics-channels" option is now available on Windows.
	- A new DNSSEC-aware libdns API for use by non-BIND9 applications
	- On some platforms, named and other binaries can now print out
	  a stack backtrace on assertion failure, to aid in debugging.
	- A "tools only" installation mode on Windows, which only installs
	  dig, host, nslookup and nsupdate.
	- Improved PKCS#11 support, including Keyper support and explicit
	  OpenSSL engine selection.

	Known issues in this release:

	- In rare cases, DNSSEC validation can leak memory.  When this 
	  happens, it will cause an assertion failure when named exits,
	  but is otherwise harmless.  A fix exists, but was too late for
	  this release; it will be included in BIND 9.7.1.

	Compatibility notes:

	- If you had built BIND 9.6 with any of ALLOW_NSEC3PARAM_UPDATE,
	  ALLOW_SECURE_TO_INSECURE or ALLOW_INSECURE_TO_SECURE defined, then
	  you should ensure that all changes that are in progress have
	  completed prior to upgrading to BIND 9.7.  BIND 9.7 implements
	  those features in a way which is not backwards compatible.

	- Prior releases had a bug which caused HMAC-SHA* keys with long
	  secrets to be used incorrectly.  Fixing this bug means that older
	  versions of BIND 9 may fail to interoperate with this version
	  when using TSIG keys.  If this occurs, the new "isc-hmac-fixup"
	  tool will convert a key with a long secret into a form that works
	  correctly with all versions of BIND 9.  See the "isc-hmac-fixup"
	  man page for additional details.

	- Revoking a DNSSEC key with "dnssec-revoke" changes its key ID.
	  It is possible for the new key ID to collide with that of a
	  different key.  Newly generated keys will not have this problem,
	  as "dnssec-keygen" looks for potential collisions before
	  generating keys, but exercise caution if using key revokation
	  with keys that were generated by older versions of BIND 9.  See
	  the Administrator's Reference Manual, section 4.10 ("Dynamic
	  Trust Anchor Management") for more details.

	- A bug was fixed in which a key's scheduled inactivity date was
	  stored incorectly.  Users who participated in the 9.7.0 BETA test
	  and had DNSSEC keys with scheduled inactivity dates will need to
	  reset those keys' dates using "dnssec-settime -I".

Building

	BIND 9 currently requires a UNIX system with an ANSI C compiler,
	basic POSIX support, and a 64 bit integer type.

	We've had successful builds and tests on the following systems:

		COMPAQ Tru64 UNIX 5.1B
		Fedora Core 6
		FreeBSD 4.10, 5.2.1, 6.2
		HP-UX 11.11
		Mac OS X 10.5
		NetBSD 3.x, 4.0-beta, 5.0-beta
		OpenBSD 3.3 and up
		Solaris 8, 9, 9 (x86), 10
		Ubuntu 7.04, 7.10
		Windows XP/2003/2008

        NOTE:  As of BIND 9.5.1, 9.4.3, and 9.3.6, older versions of
        Windows, including Windows NT and Windows 2000, are no longer
        supported.

	We have recent reports from the user community that a supported
	version of BIND will build and run on the following systems:

		AIX 4.3, 5L
		CentOS 4, 4.5, 5
		Darwin 9.0.0d1/ARM
		Debian 4
		Fedora Core 5, 7
		FreeBSD 6.1
		HP-UX 11.23 PA
		MacOS X 10.4, 10.5
		Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4, 5
		SCO OpenServer 5.0.6
		Slackware 9, 10
		SuSE 9, 10

	To build, just

		./configure
		make

	Do not use a parallel "make".

	Several environment variables that can be set before running
	configure will affect compilation:

	    CC
		The C compiler to use.	configure tries to figure
		out the right one for supported systems.

	    CFLAGS
		C compiler flags.  Defaults to include -g and/or -O2
		as supported by the compiler.  

	    STD_CINCLUDES
		System header file directories.	 Can be used to specify
		where add-on thread or IPv6 support is, for example.
		Defaults to empty string.

	    STD_CDEFINES
		Any additional preprocessor symbols you want defined.
		Defaults to empty string.

		Possible settings:
		Change the default syslog facility of named/lwresd.
		  -DISC_FACILITY=LOG_LOCAL0	
		Enable DNSSEC signature chasing support in dig.
		  -DDIG_SIGCHASE=1 (sets -DDIG_SIGCHASE_TD=1 and
				    -DDIG_SIGCHASE_BU=1)
		Disable dropping queries from particular well known ports.
		  -DNS_CLIENT_DROPPORT=0
	        Sibling glue checking in named-checkzone is enabled by default.
		To disable the default check set.  -DCHECK_SIBLING=0
		named-checkzone checks out-of-zone addresses by default.
		To disable this default set.  -DCHECK_LOCAL=0
		To create the default pid files in ${localstatedir}/run rather
		than ${localstatedir}/run/{named,lwresd}/ set.
		  -DNS_RUN_PID_DIR=0
		Enable workaround for Solaris kernel bug about /dev/poll
		  -DISC_SOCKET_USE_POLLWATCH=1
		  The watch timeout is also configurable, e.g.,
		  -DISC_SOCKET_POLLWATCH_TIMEOUT=20

	    LDFLAGS
		Linker flags. Defaults to empty string.

	The following need to be set when cross compiling.

	    BUILD_CC
		The native C compiler.
	    BUILD_CFLAGS (optional)
	    BUILD_CPPFLAGS (optional)
		Possible Settings:
		-DNEED_OPTARG=1		(optarg is not declared in <unistd.h>)
	    BUILD_LDFLAGS (optional)
	    BUILD_LIBS (optional)

	To build shared libraries, specify "--with-libtool" on the
	configure command line.

	For the server to support DNSSEC, you need to build it
	with crypto support.  You must have OpenSSL 0.9.5a
	or newer installed and specify "--with-openssl" on the
	configure command line.  If OpenSSL is installed under
	a nonstandard prefix, you can tell configure where to
	look for it using "--with-openssl=/prefix".

	On some platforms it is necessary to explictly request large
	file support to handle files bigger than 2GB.  This can be
	done by "--enable-largefile" on the configure command line.

	On some platforms, BIND 9 can be built with multithreading
	support, allowing it to take advantage of multiple CPUs.
	You can specify whether to build a multithreaded BIND 9 
	by specifying "--enable-threads" or "--disable-threads"
	on the configure command line.  The default is operating
	system dependent.

        Support for the "fixed" rrset-order option can be enabled
        or disabled by specifying "--enable-fixed-rrset" or
        "--disable-fixed-rrset" on the configure command line.
        The default is "disabled", to reduce memory footprint.

	If your operating system has integrated support for IPv6, it
	will be used automatically.  If you have installed KAME IPv6
	separately, use "--with-kame[=PATH]" to specify its location.

	"make install" will install "named" and the various BIND 9 libraries.
	By default, installation is into /usr/local, but this can be changed
	with the "--prefix" option when running "configure".

	You may specify the option "--sysconfdir" to set the directory 
	where configuration files like "named.conf" go by default,
	and "--localstatedir" to set the default parent directory
	of "run/named.pid".   For backwards compatibility with BIND 8,
	--sysconfdir defaults to "/etc" and --localstatedir defaults to
	"/var" if no --prefix option is given.  If there is a --prefix
	option, sysconfdir defaults to "$prefix/etc" and localstatedir
	defaults to "$prefix/var".

	To see additional configure options, run "configure --help".
	Note that the help message does not reflect the BIND 8 
	compatibility defaults for sysconfdir and localstatedir.

	If you're planning on making changes to the BIND 9 source, you
	should also "make depend".  If you're using Emacs, you might find
	"make tags" helpful.

	If you need to re-run configure please run "make distclean" first.
	This will ensure that all the option changes take.

	Building with gcc is not supported, unless gcc is the vendor's usual
	compiler (e.g. the various BSD systems, Linux).
	
	Known compiler issues:
	* gcc-3.2.1 and gcc-3.1.1 is known to cause problems with solaris-x86.
	* gcc prior to gcc-3.2.3 ultrasparc generates incorrect code at -02.
	* gcc-3.3.5 powerpc generates incorrect code at -02.
	* Irix, MipsPRO 7.4.1m is known to cause problems.

	A limited test suite can be run with "make test".  Many of
	the tests require you to configure a set of virtual IP addresses
	on your system, and some require Perl; see bin/tests/system/README
	for details.

	SunOS 4 requires "printf" to be installed to make the shared
	libraries.  sh-utils-1.16 provides a "printf" which compiles
	on SunOS 4.

Documentation

	The BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual is included with the
	source distribution in DocBook XML and HTML format, in the
	doc/arm directory.

	Some of the programs in the BIND 9 distribution have man pages
	in their directories.  In particular, the command line
	options of "named" are documented in /bin/named/named.8.
	There is now also a set of man pages for the lwres library.

	If you are upgrading from BIND 8, please read the migration
	notes in doc/misc/migration.  If you are upgrading from
	BIND 4, read doc/misc/migration-4to9.

	Frequently asked questions and their answers can be found in
	FAQ.

        Additional information on various subjects can be found
        in the other README files.


Bug Reports and Mailing Lists

	Bugs reports should be sent to

		bind9-bugs@isc.org

	To join the BIND Users mailing list, send mail to

		bind-users-request@isc.org

	archives of which can be found via

		http://www.isc.org/ops/lists/

	If you're planning on making changes to the BIND 9 source
	code, you might want to join the BIND Workers mailing list.
	Send mail to

		bind-workers-request@isc.org


