Thank You,					    (in the order of appearance)


	Lynne and Bill Jolitz

		for your work on 386BSD and making all this possible !


	Holger Veit		(veit@du9ds3.uni-duisburg.de)

		for the permission to use a modified version of his keyboard
		driver and utilities for keyboard remapping / multinational
		keyboard support.


	Per Lindberg

		for the extremely helpful vt100 terminal testprogram found
		in the directory vttest.


	John Birchfield	

		for the ncsa telnet package, which contains a vt100 emulation
		and which was very helpful in studying some concepts.


	Ralf Friedl		(friedl@informatik.uni-kl.de)

		for making his implementation of multi-sceens for the net-2
		distribution available.	i looked at this and took some ideas
		and lines from his code.


	Bruce Evans		(bde@runx.oz.au)

		for contributing some bugfixes and a complete termcap entry


	Brian H. Dunford-Shore  (brian@morpheus.wustl.edu)

		for contributing most of the EGA/VGA screen switching code
		and being a fast, reliable and responsive co-author. This
		driver would not be what it is without Brian, Thank You !


	Frank da Cruz		(fdc@columbia.edu)

		for my famous datacomm program and for giving the permission
		to redistribute files from the msdos kermit distribution
		located in the directory support/demo.


	Joerg Wunsch		(joerg_wunsch@uriah.sax.de)

		for contributing precise bugreports and -fixes, the 8x10
		EGA/VGA fonts and the color palette ioctls and for being
		a very responsive contributor of various ideas.
		Joerg wrote pcvt's interface to XFree86 1.2 and 1.3 and
		the SYSV/syscons - like interface to XFree86 2.0.
		There would be no support for X without Joerg's work!
		    Thank you very much Joerg, i enjoy it !!! :-)


	Scott Turner		(scotty@gagetalker.com)

		for contributing code to change the winsize structure, many
		discussions on the keyboard code and fine-tuning the driver
		

	Gordon L. Burditt	(gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org)

		for the nicest and most complete bugreports i ever got


	Theo Deraadt		(deraadt@fsa.ca)

		for pushing me forward. There would be no 3.00 release
		if Theo didn't asked for features ... ;-)


	Onno van der Linden	(c/o frank@fwi.uva.nl)

		for writing the 132 column support for the Cirrus
		chipsets although he had no time to do it ... :-)


	Wolfram Solfrank, Ingo Koenig

		for putting some data onto tape (and handling and shipping
		in the case of Wolfgang) to provide me with some latest
		sources because i still have no ip-connectivity ....


	Michael Havemester	(tik@abqhh.hanse.de)

		for giving me a chance to stay up to date with NetBSD-
		current, for programming the initial version of the fast
		scrolling code and for the keyboard fifo code!


	Charles Hannum		(mycroft@gnu.ai.mit.edu)

		for getting bored by a slow-scrolling video driver and 
		for leaving me some bugs to fix ;-)


	The NetBSD and FreeBSD teams

		for giving me something to play, work and learn with !
		There would be nothing to write a driver for without you !!!
