This is the README file for the Taylor UUCP contrib directory.

This directory contains contributed shell scripts and programs that
you may find useful.

Not actually included here, but nonetheless useful, is the TUA program
distributed by Lele Gaifax <lele@nautilus.sublink.org>.  It can do
various sorts of analysis of any type of UUCP log file.  It should be
available from most FTP sites.

xchat.c, xchat.man, README-XCHAT, xc-conf.h-dist, Makefile.xchat:
    A program by Bob Denny that may be invoked by the ``chat-program''
    command for any of the various types of chat scripts.  It is
    driven by scripts which are written in its own little language.
    It is a powerful program that can add a lot of flexibility to your
    chat scripts.

Dial.Hayes, Hangup.Hayes, Login.LAT, Login.PortSel, Login.VMS:
    Sample scripts for xchat.

uucomp.shar
    A set of programs which automatically compresses outgoing data in
    the spool directory.  The remote system must cooperate when using
    this.  It can cut down on phone usage when applicable.
    Contributed by Ed Carp.

uurate.c, uurate.man, README-UURATE, Makefile.uurt:
    A nifty little program by Bob Denny which analyzes the Log and
    Stats file and prints various sorts of reports.  This version was
    tweaked by Stephan Niemz and Klaus Dahlenburg.

uutraf:
    Another program to produce neat reports from your log files, this
    one a perl script by Johan Vromans.

savelog.sh, savelog.man:
    A handy shell script to rename a log file and cycle old versions
    through a set of names, throwing away the oldest one.  It will
    also optionally compress the old log files.  I believe that this
    is originally from smail.  It was written by Ronald S. Karr and
    Landon Curt Noll, and was given to me by Bob Denny.

uureroute.perl:
    A perl script to reroute all mail queued up for one host to
    another.  Written by Bill Campbell and contributed by Francois
    Pinard.

stats.sh:
    A gawk script by Zacharias Beckman which reads the Stats file and
    prints the last 80 lines as a nicely formatted table.

uuq.sh:
    A uuq workalike shell script by Zacharias Beckman.

uupoll.shar:
    uupoll and autopoll programs contributed by Klaus Dahlenburg.
    uupoll can be used to automatically poll all systems, or a list of
    systems; autopoll will poll and then retry failed calls.

uudemon.shar:
    An implementation of the HDB uudemon.poll script by Donald Burr.

uuxconv:
    A program by Richard E. Nickle to help convert SPOOLDIR_HDB spool
    directories to SPOOLDIR_TAYLOR spool directories (note that it is
    not necessary to convert your spool directories at all; the
    SPOOLDIR_TAYLOR approach may be slightly more efficient).

dialHDB.c:
    A program by Daniel Hagerty which permits using HDB dialer
    programs as chat programs.

amiga.c:
    A wrapper program to run uucico from a cron table under Amiga
    SVR4 (apparently a wrapper is required).  This was contributed by
    Lawrence E. Rosenman.

tstout.c:
    A program to remove a user from utmp and wtmp, essentially logging
    them out.  I put this together from BSD code.  I need it to use
    tstuu with the system UUCP on Ultrix 4.0, for reasons that escape
    me.  Most people will have little use for this.
