TODO list for pkg_manage:


- check for expections, catch error output from pkg_* tools
  check all i/o operations for error capture.
done 6Apr95

- implement better (faster) way of getting the +* out of the 
  tar files, or use an index file for this. 
done 9Apr95, modified tar to stop after having extracted all
  fnames listed on the commandline.

- add extra option to have a user select a directory and then display 
  all packages in that directory with a descriptive line, one should be 
  able to select a whole bunch of packages and then select GO.
  Maybe review the whole concept. Perhaps something like this:
done 5Apr95

  NOTE:
  Have two windows, one containing the installed packages, the other
  containing the *to be* installed packages. Packages listed in this
  last window depend upon the directory chosen. One can delete 
  packages in the left window, or move packages from the right window 
  to the left, that is install them.
  Coupling deletion from the left window to inclusion in the right
  window will be difficult, since one cannot be sure that the list
  one sees in the right window are all the packages available.
  Furthermore deleting a package does not give one a package file
  to store in a central place.
  This coupling should not be suggested. 

- when deleting the last package in the list, adjust the cursor-pointer
done 6Apr95

- check if a package is already installed when installing it. 
done 7Apr95

- Read also +CONTENTS from pkg when scanning directory to extract
  the package name from it. 
done 7Apr95

- should I check for uid being root before installing anything?


- Make sure that the process can continue as a batch process.
  Accumulate all error messages and show them after processing. 
  Before beginning with a batch install, check if any packages are 
  already installed, if so pop up message suggesting to delete
  the package first before installing the new one. 
done 7apr95

- make a dialog in which the comment information is printed, and
  which has a button for displaying the description information.
done 6Apr95, no button, but key F2 for description

- when selecting the directory to install multiple packages
  print a helpline about what to do.
done 6Apr95

- limit the width of the info-popup when selecting multiple
  packages.
done 6Apr95

- make sure that the popup's dont get too big.
done 6Apr95

- add progress indication when scanning packages and installing them.
done 6Apr95, added a dialog_gauge to libdialog.
 
- check for delwin's whenever a newwin was called
done 6Apr95

- when an error occurs in get_desc, because it can't stat the temporary
  file, then there is an seg-fault in draw_box in RefreshListObj() ?????
  Low priority, because something fishy is going on then anyway

- use $TMPDIR to create tmp directory into

- make sure that when calling help, the helplines are disabled.
done 11Apr95, also implemented a different mechanism to save and 
restore helplines

- do a size calculation for the selected packages
done 11Apr95

- (next version?) implement exec_catch_errors with popen(), I think
  this will speed up things quite a bit.
