This is a port of bootpd (CMU version 2.2a) to NetBSD-current.

BOOTPD is a useful adjunct to the nfs diskless boot EPROM code.

The alternatives for initiating a boot of a kernel across a network
are to use RARP protocol, or BOOTP protocol. BOOTP is more flexible;
it allows additional items of information to be returned to the
booting client; it also supports booting across gateways.

There are two parts to this package:

- The bootpd sources to be compiled and installed.

- A patch to etc/services and etc/inetd.conf to define the bootpd
network service names and to define the bootpd task to inetd. These
items are in the PATCH file.

If you have problems or questions about this port, send me email at
mckim@lerc.nasa.gov

- Jim McKim

enclosed below is the original README:


This directory contains the source for the CMU BOOTP server.  The files
include:

README		This file
bootpd.8	The manual page
bootp.h		The protocol header file
bootpd.h	The server header file
bootpd.c	The main server module
readfile.c	The configuration file-reading routines
hash.h		The hash table header file
hash.c		The hash table module
Version.c	The version module
newvers.sh	A shell script to generate new version numbers
Makefile	The makefile
bootptab	An example database file for the server
gmods		Text describing optional gateway modifications


Notes:
1) BOOTP was originally designed and implemented by Bill Croft at Stanford.
   Much of the credit for the ideas and the code goes to him.  We've added
   code to support the vendor specific area of the packet as specified in
   RFC1048.  We've also improved the host lookup algorithm and added some
   extra logging.

2) The server now uses syslog to do logging.  Specifically it uses the 4.3bsd
   version.  I've #ifdef'd all of these calls.  If you are running 4.2 you
   should compile without the -DSYSLOG switch.

3) You must update your /etc/services file to contain the following two lines:
    bootps		67/udp				# bootp server
    bootpc		68/udp				# bootp client

4) The code and the bootptab should be reasonably well commented.  If you 
   have any questions, just let us know.

Construction:
    Make sure all of the files exist first.  If anything is missing,
    please contact either Walt Wimer or Drew Perkins by E-mail or phone.
    Addresses and phone numbers are listed below.

    Type 'make'.  The options at present are: -DSYSLOG which enables logging
    code, -DDEBUG which enables table dumping via signals, and -DVEND_CMU
    which enables the CMU extensions for CMU PC/IP.

    Edit the bootptab.  The man page and the comments in the file should
    explain how to go about doing so.  If you have any problems, let me know.

    Type 'make install'.  This should put all of the files in the right place.

    Edit your /etc/rc.local or /etc/inetd.conf file to start up bootpd upon
    reboot.

Care and feeding:
    If you change the interface cards on your host or add new hosts you will
    need to update /etc/bootptab.  Just edit it as before.  Once you write
    it back out, bootpd will notice that there is a new copy and will
    reread it the next time it gets a request.

    If your bootp clients don't get a response then several things might be
    wrong.  Most often, the entry for that host is not in the database.
    Check the hardware address and then check the entry and make sure
    everything is right.  Other problems include the server machine crashing,
    bad cables, and the like.  If your network is very congested you should
    try making your bootp clients send additional requests before giving up.


November 7, 1988


Walter L. Wimer			Drew D. Perkins
ww0n@andrew.cmu.edu		ddp@andrew.cmu.edu
(412) 268-6252			(412) 268-8576

4910 Forbes Ave
Pittsburgh, PA  15213

