Summary of functional enhancements from prior major releases of BIND 9:

BIND 9.6.0

        Full NSEC3 support

        Automatic zone re-signing

	New update-policy methods tcp-self and 6to4-self

        The BIND 8 resolver library, libbind, has been removed from the
        BIND 9 distribution and is now available as a separate download.

	Change the default pid file location from /var/run to
	/var/run/{named,lwresd} for improved chroot/setuid support.

BIND 9.5.0

	GSS-TSIG support (RFC 3645).

	DHCID support.

	Experimental http server and statistics support for named via xml.

	More detailed statistics counters including those supported in BIND 8.

	Faster ACL processing.

	Use Doxygen to generate internal documentation.

        Efficient LRU cache-cleaning mechanism.

        NSID support.

BIND 9.4.0

	Implemented "additional section caching (or acache)", an
	internal cache framework for additional section content to
	improve response performance.  Several configuration options
	were provided to control the behavior.

	New notify type 'master-only'.  Enable notify for master
	zones only.

	Accept 'notify-source' style syntax for query-source.

	rndc now allows addresses to be set in the server clauses.

	New option "allow-query-cache".  This lets "allow-query"
	be used to specify the default zone access level rather
	than having to have every zone override the global value.
	"allow-query-cache" can be set at both the options and view
	levels.  If "allow-query-cache" is not set then "allow-recursion"
	is used if set, otherwise "allow-query" is used if set
	unless "recursion no;" is set in which case "none;" is used,
	otherwise the default (localhost; localnets;) is used.

	rndc: the source address can now be specified.

	ixfr-from-differences now takes master and slave in addition
	to yes and no at the options and view levels.

	Allow the journal's name to be changed via named.conf.

	'rndc notify zone [class [view]]' resend the NOTIFY messages
	for the specified zone.

	'dig +trace' now randomly selects the next servers to try.
	Report if there is a bad delegation.

	Improve check-names error messages.

	Make public the function to read a key file, dst_key_read_public().

	dig now returns the byte count for axfr/ixfr.
			
	allow-update is now settable at the options / view level.

	named-checkconf now checks the logging configuration.

	host now can turn on memory debugging flags with '-m'.

	Don't send notify messages to self.

	Perform sanity checks on NS records which refer to 'in zone' names.

	New zone option "notify-delay".  Specify a minimum delay
	between sets of NOTIFY messages.

	Extend adjusting TTL warning messages.

	Named and named-checkzone can now both check for non-terminal
	wildcard records.

	"rndc freeze/thaw" now freezes/thaws all zones.

	named-checkconf now check acls to verify that they only
	refer to existing acls.

	The server syntax has been extended to support a range of
	servers.

	Report differences between hints and real NS rrset and
	associated address records.

	Preserve the case of domain names in rdata during zone
	transfers.

	Restructured the data locking framework using architecture
	dependent atomic operations (when available), improving
	response performance on multi-processor machines significantly.
	x86, x86_64, alpha, powerpc, and mips are currently supported.

	UNIX domain controls are now supported.

	Add support for additional zone file formats for improving
	loading performance.  The masterfile-format option in
	named.conf can be used to specify a non-default format.  A
	separate command named-compilezone was provided to generate
	zone files in the new format.  Additionally, the -I and -O
	options for dnssec-signzone specify the input and output
	formats.

	dnssec-signzone can now randomize signature end times
	(dnssec-signzone -j jitter).

	Add support for CH A record.

	Add additional zone data constancy checks.  named-checkzone
	has extended checking of NS, MX and SRV record and the hosts
	they reference.  named has extended post zone load checks.
	New zone options: check-mx and integrity-check.


	edns-udp-size can now be overridden on a per server basis.

	dig can now specify the EDNS version when making a query.

	Added framework for handling multiple EDNS versions.

	Additional memory debugging support to track size and mctx
	arguments.

	Detect duplicates of UDP queries we are recursing on and
	drop them.  New stats category "duplicates".

	"USE INTERNAL MALLOC" is now runtime selectable.

	The lame cache is now done on a <qname,qclass,qtype> basis
	as some servers only appear to be lame for certain query
	types.

	Limit the number of recursive clients that can be waiting
	for a single query (<qname,qtype,qclass>) to resolve.  New
	options clients-per-query and max-clients-per-query.

	dig: report the number of extra bytes still left in the
	packet after processing all the records.

	Support for IPSECKEY rdata type.

	Raise the UDP recieve buffer size to 32k if it is less than 32k.

	x86 and x86_64 now have seperate atomic locking implementations.

	named-checkconf now validates update-policy entries.

	Attempt to make the amount of work performed in a iteration
	self tuning.  The covers nodes clean from the cache per
	iteration, nodes written to disk when rewriting a master
	file and nodes destroyed per iteration when destroying a
	zone or a cache.

	ISC string copy API.

	Automatic empty zone creation for D.F.IP6.ARPA and friends.
	Note: RFC 1918 zones are not yet covered by this but are
	likely to be in a future release.

	New options: empty-server, empty-contact, empty-zones-enable
	and disable-empty-zone.

	dig now has a '-q queryname' and '+showsearch' options.

	host/nslookup now continue (default)/fail on SERVFAIL.

	dig now warns if 'RA' is not set in the answer when 'RD'
	was set in the query.  host/nslookup skip servers that fail
	to set 'RA' when 'RD' is set unless a server is explicitly
	set.

	Integrate contibuted DLZ code into named.

	Integrate contibuted IDN code from JPNIC.

	libbind: corresponds to that from BIND 8.4.7.

BIND 9.3.0

	DNSSEC is now DS based (RFC 3658).
	See also RFC 3845, doc/draft/draft-ietf-dnsext-dnssec-*.

	DNSSEC lookaside validation.

	check-names is now implemented.
	rrset-order in more complete.

	IPv4/IPv6 transition support, dual-stack-servers.

	IXFR deltas can now be generated when loading master files,
	ixfr-from-differences.

	It is now possible to specify the size of a journal, max-journal-size.

	It is now possible to define a named set of master servers to be
	used in masters clause, masters.

	The advertised EDNS UDP size can now be set, edns-udp-size.

	allow-v6-synthesis has been obsoleted.

	NOTE:
	* Zones containing MD and MF will now be rejected.
	* dig, nslookup name. now report "Not Implemented" as
	  NOTIMP rather than NOTIMPL.  This will have impact on scripts
	  that are looking for NOTIMPL.

	libbind: corresponds to that from BIND 8.4.5.

BIND 9.2.0

	The size of the cache can now be limited using the
        "max-cache-size" option.

	The server can now automatically convert RFC1886-style recursive
	lookup requests into RFC2874-style lookups, when enabled using the
	new option "allow-v6-synthesis".  This allows stub resolvers that
	support AAAA records but not A6 record chains or binary labels to
	perform lookups in domains that make use of these IPv6 DNS
	features.

	Performance has been improved.

	The man pages now use the more portable "man" macros rather than
	the "mandoc" macros, and are installed by "make install".

	The named.conf parser has been completely rewritten.  It now
	supports "include" directives in more places such as inside "view"
	statements, and it no longer has any reserved words.

	The "rndc status" command is now implemented.

	rndc can now be configured automatically.

	A BIND 8 compatible stub resolver library is now included in
	lib/bind.

	OpenSSL has been removed from the distribution.  This means that to
	use DNSSEC, OpenSSL must be installed and the --with-openssl option
	must be supplied to configure.  This does not apply to the use of
	TSIG, which does not require OpenSSL.

	The source distribution now builds on Windows.  See
	win32utils/readme1.txt and win32utils/win32-build.txt for details.

	This distribution also includes a new lightweight stub
	resolver library and associated resolver daemon that fully
	support forward and reverse lookups of both IPv4 and IPv6
	addresses.  This library is considered experimental and
	is not a complete replacement for the BIND 8 resolver library.
	Applications that use the BIND 8 res_* functions to perform
	DNS lookups or dynamic updates still need to be linked against
	the BIND 8 libraries.  For DNS lookups, they can also use the
	new "getrrsetbyname()" API.

	BIND 9.2 is capable of acting as an authoritative server
	for DNSSEC secured zones.  This functionality is believed to
	be stable and complete except for lacking support for
	verifications involving wildcard records in secure zones.

	When acting as a caching server, BIND 9.2 can be configured
	to perform DNSSEC secure resolution on behalf of its clients.
	This part of the DNSSEC implementation is still considered
	experimental.  For detailed information about the state of the
	DNSSEC implementation, see the file doc/misc/dnssec.

	There are a few known bugs:

	    On some systems, IPv6 and IPv4 sockets interact in
	    unexpected ways.  For details, see doc/misc/ipv6.
	    To reduce the impact of these problems, the server
	    no longer listens for requests on IPv6 addresses
	    by default.  If you need to accept DNS queries over
	    IPv6, you must specify "listen-on-v6 { any; };"
	    in the named.conf options statement.

	    FreeBSD prior to 4.2 (and 4.2 if running as non-root)
	    and OpenBSD prior to 2.8 log messages like
	    "fcntl(8, F_SETFL, 4): Inappropriate ioctl for device".
	    This is due to a bug in "/dev/random" and impacts the
	    server's DNSSEC support.

	    OS X 10.1.4 (Darwin 5.4), OS X 10.1.5 (Darwin 5.5) and
	    OS X 10.2 (Darwin 6.0) reports errors like
	    "fcntl(3, F_SETFL, 4): Operation not supported by device".
	    This is due to a bug in "/dev/random" and impacts the
	    server's DNSSEC support.

	    --with-libtool does not work on AIX.

	A bug in some versions of the Microsoft DNS server can cause zone
        transfers from a BIND 9 server to a W2K server to fail.  For details,
	see the "Zone Transfers" section in doc/misc/migration.
